Update gRPC ASP.NET Core article to use TLS, minor diagnostic fixes (#14523)
aspnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/grpc/aspnetcore.md

Kestrel gRPC endpoints:

* Require HTTP/2.
* Should be secured with [Transport Layer Security (TLS)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5246).

#### HTTP/2

gRPC requires HTTP/2. gRPC for ASP.NET Core validates [HttpRequest.Protocol](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpRequest.Protocol*) is `HTTP/2`.

Kestrel [supports HTTP/2](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel#http2-support) on most modern operating systems. Kestrel endpoints are configured to support HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 connections by default.

#### TLS

> Kestrel endpoints used for gRPC should be secured with TLS. In development, an endpoint secured with TLS is automatically created at `https://localhost:5001` when the ASP.NET Core development certificate is present. No configuration is required. You can double check a Kestrel endpoint is secured by looking at the address. A `https` prefix indicates that the endpoint is secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kestrel endpoints used for gRPC should be secured with TLS. In development, an endpoint secured with TLS is automatically created at `https://localhost:5001` when the ASP.NET Core development certificate is present. No configuration is required. You can confirm that a Kestrel endpoint is secured by looking at the address. An `https` prefix indicates that the endpoint is secure.
```

> Kestrel endpoints used for gRPC should be secured with TLS. In development, an endpoint secured with TLS is automatically created at `https://localhost:5001` when the ASP.NET Core development certificate is present. No configuration is required. You can double check a Kestrel endpoint is secured by looking at the address. A `https` prefix indicates that the endpoint is secure.

Reviewer 2: Kestrel endpoints used for gRPC should be secured with TLS. In development, an endpoint secured with TLS is automatically created at `https://localhost:5001` when the ASP.NET Core development certificate is present. No configuration is required.  An `https` prefix verifies the Kestrel endpoint is using TLS.

Reviewer 2: I don't think @blowdart  would agree HTTPS guarantees the endpoint is secure. It only guarantees it's using TLS.

Author: Fair. Updated

In production, TLS must be explicitly configured. In the following *appsettings.json* example, an HTTP/2 endpoint secured with TLS is provided:

[!code-json[](~/grpc/aspnetcore/sample/appsettings.json?highlight=4)]

Alternatively, Kestrel endpoints can be configured in *Program.cs*:

[!code-csharp[](~/grpc/aspnetcore/sample/Program.cs?highlight=7&name=snippet)]

#### Protocol negotiation

TLS is used for more than securing communication. The TLS [Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7301#section-3) handshake is used to negotiate the connection protocol between the client and the server when an endpoint supports multiple protocols. This negotiation determines whether the connection uses HTTP/1.1 or HTTP/2.

> If a HTTP/2 endpoint is configured without TLS, the endpoint's [ListenOptions.Protocols](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel#listenoptionsprotocols) must be set to `HttpProtocols.Http2`. An endpoint with multiple protocols like `HttpProtocols.Http1AndHttp2` can't be used without TLS because there is no negotiation. All connections to the unsecured endpoint default to HTTP/1.1, and gRPC calls fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an HTTP/2 endpoint is configured without TLS, the endpoint's [ListenOptions.Protocols](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel#listenoptionsprotocols) must be set to `HttpProtocols.Http2`. An endpoint with multiple protocols like `HttpProtocols.Http1AndHttp2` can't be used without TLS because there is no negotiation. All connections to the unsecured endpoint default to HTTP/1.1, and gRPC calls fail.
```

> If a HTTP/2 endpoint is configured without TLS, the endpoint's [ListenOptions.Protocols](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel#listenoptionsprotocols) must be set to `HttpProtocols.Http2`. An endpoint with multiple protocols like `HttpProtocols.Http1AndHttp2` can't be used without TLS because there is no negotiation. All connections to the unsecured endpoint default to HTTP/1.1, and gRPC calls fail.

Reviewer 2: If a HTTP/2 endpoint is configured without TLS, the endpoint's [ListenOptions.Protocols](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel#listenoptionsprotocols) must be set to `HttpProtocols.Http2`. An endpoint with multiple protocols (for example, `HttpProtocols.Http1AndHttp2`) can't be used without TLS because there is no negotiation. All connections to the unsecured endpoint default to HTTP/1.1, and gRPC calls fail.
